本篇文章主要记录我从https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/IpcIXqpzgt52nQILwS0kdg这篇文章中提取的知识点

0：局域网內存活主机扫描
nmap -sP 192.168.0.0/24
以下摘自https://nmap.org/book/man-host-discovery.html，是nmap官方关于存活主机扫描的相关介绍

One of the very first steps in any network reconnaissance mission is to reduce a (sometimes huge) set of IP ranges into a list of active or interesting hosts. 
Scanning every port of every single IP address is slow and usually unnecessary. Of course what makes a host interesting depends greatly on the scan purposes. 
Network administrators may only be interested in hosts running a certain service, while security auditors may care about every single device with an IP address. 
An administrator may be comfortable using just an ICMP ping to locate hosts on his internal network, while an external penetration tester may use a diverse 
set of dozens of probes in an attempt to evade firewall restrictions.
想要理解上段文字中提到的“ICMP ping”，我们需要先来知道icmp协议等相关基础知识
ip协议（internet protocol）：主要用于路由寻址
icmp协议（internet control message protocol）：其实是介于网络层之上，传输层之下，如果被划分的话，通常被定义为网络层，用于发送没有实际数据的探测
包，并返回探测结果给发送源
arp协议（address resolution protocol）：其实是介于数据链路层之上，网络层之下，如果被划分的话，通常被定义为网络层，用于将ip地址解析为mac地址
工业标准下的网络分层如下：
应用层：http
传输层：tcp，udp
网络层：ip
数据链路层：
物理层：
最后，“ICMP ping”就是我们经常使用的命令ping，其实就是发送了一个icmp echo request探测包，然后收到icmp echo reply返回包来判断目标主机是否存活

Because host discovery needs are so diverse, Nmap offers a wide variety of options for customizing the techniques used.Host discovery is sometimes called 
ping scan, but it goes well beyond the simple ICMP echo request packets associated with the ubiquitous ping tool. Users can skip the ping step entirely with 
a list scan (-sL) or by disabling ping (-Pn), or engage the network with arbitrary combinations of multi-port TCP SYN/ACK, UDP, SCTP INIT and ICMP probes. 
The goal of these probes is to solicit responses which demonstrate that an IP address is actually active (is being used by a host or network device). On many 
networks, only a small percentage of IP addresses are active at any given time. This is particularly common with private address space such as 10.0.0.0/8. 
That network has 16 million IPs, but I have seen it used by companies with less than a thousand machines. Host discovery can find those machines in a 
sparsely allocated sea of IP addresses.
上段文字中提到的选项-Pn常用的情况是，主机的防火墙拦截了icmp探测包，而让nmap误以为主机没有存活，使用选项-Pn时，可绕过此种情况

If no host discovery options are given, Nmap sends an ICMP echo request, a TCP SYN packet to port 443, a TCP ACK packet to port 80, and an ICMP timestamp
request. (For IPv6, the ICMP timestamp request is omitted because it is not part of ICMPv6.) These defaults are equivalent to the -PE -PS443 -PA80 -PP options. 
The exceptions to this are the ARP (for IPv4) and Neighbor Discovery (for IPv6) scans which are used for any targets on a local ethernet network. For unprivileged 
Unix shell users, the default probes are a SYN packet to ports 80 and 443 using the connect system call. This host discovery is often sufficient when scanning 
local networks, but a more comprehensive set of discovery probes is recommended for security auditing.

The -P* options (which select ping types) can be combined. You can increase your odds of penetrating strict firewalls by sending many probe types using 
different TCP ports/flags and ICMP codes. Also note that ARP/Neighbor Discovery is done by default against targets on a local Ethernet network even if you 
specify other -P* options, because it is almost always faster and more effective.

By default, Nmap does host discovery and then performs a port scan against each host it determines is online. This is true even if you specify non-default 
host discovery types such as UDP probes (-PU). Read about the -sn option to learn how to perform only host discovery, or use -Pn to skip host discovery and 
port scan all target hosts. The following options control host discovery:

-sL (List Scan)
The list scan is a degenerate form of host discovery that simply lists each host of the network(s) specified, without sending any packets to the target hosts. By 
default, Nmap still does reverse-DNS resolution on the hosts to learn their names. It is often surprising how much useful information simple hostnames give 
out. For example, fw.chi is the name of one company's Chicago firewall. Nmap also reports the total number of IP addresses at the end. The list scan is a good 
sanity check to ensure that you have proper IP addresses for your targets. If the hosts sport domain names you do not recognize, it is worth investigating further 
to prevent scanning the wrong company's network.
Since the idea is to simply print a list of target hosts, options for higher level functionality such as port scanning, OS detection, or ping scanning cannot be 
combined with this. If you wish to disable ping scanning while still performing such higher level functionality, read up on the -Pn (skip ping) option.

